Have you ever sat there, thinking "I wish I could write?" Not "I wish I could write like Joe Schmo or anyone in particular," just "I wish I could write." I think you can. I don't mean the one novel that's in all of us. Believe me, I've read a lot of those. It's not true.

But you can write something.  An opinion? Opinions are good. We all have them. Done something technical? What about a how-to, or a review? Maybe a poem? A haiku in response to Eric Schmidt? Go ahead, learn a new art-form.

I write a lot of words, and I confess I have followed the rules and I have failed. Also, I have thrown away the rules and I have failed. That's why we have editors.  I can give you lists of attributes of good writing:
• Clarity
• Accuracy
• Relevance
• Sincerity (Remember, if you can
fake this, you can fake anything.)
• Concision
• Transparency
• Consistency

I can give you list upon list of rules for writing most kinds of text. You know the kind of thing I mean:
• Put the reader first.
• Be clear.
• Be specific.
• Get to the point. Then stop.
• Express one thought at a time.
• Use short phrases.
• Use short sentences.
• Use short paragraphs.
• Never use a long word when a
short one will do.
• Edit thoroughly; cut, cut, cut

I know it's difficult. Web readers have a short attention span, and you just can't show off the extent of your vocabulary, given our readership is trans- national. That doesn't make it impossible.

I mark my own papers these days: 'must try harder'.

Why don't you give it a go? Any subject will do. Go ahead, write something. Write anything.
