++ 绝望主妇每集结束语

Everyone understands the nature of war, we also understand that victory depends on the cards that we have been dealt.  Some when faced with a bloody battle simply give in, but for some surrender is unacceptable, even though they know it would be a fight to the death.

　　每个人都清楚战争的本性，我们也知道胜利取决于我们打出的那些牌。有些人在面对血战会从容放弃；但是对某些人来说投降是无法接受的，尽管他们清楚面前的是决一死战。

　　

 

The world is filled with unlikely friendships. How did they begin, with one person desperately in need and another willing to lend a helping hand. When such kindness is offered, we are finally able to see the worth of those we have previously written off, and before we've known it, a bond has formed, regardless of whether others can understand it. Yes, unlikely friendships start up everyday, no one understands this more than the lonely, in fact, and it’s what they count on.

　　世界上到处都是不太可能的友谊。它们都是由一方迫切的需求和另一方伸出的援助之手开始的。当这样的帮助提供给我们的时候，我们才明白曾经失败的价值。在我们相识之前，一条纽带就已经把我们连接在一起了，不管别人能否理解。的确，不太可能的友谊每天都在发生，没有人能比孤独寂寞的人更了解这一点。事实上，不太可能发生的友谊就是他们的指望。

　　

　　

　　Now and then we all need a little help, so we ask for small favors. But it's always best to be wary of those eager to come to our rescue. Because even the smallest of favors carries a price tag. Yes, everyone has an agenda, no matter what they may tell us...and in those rare instances where there is no ulterior motive; we're so taking aback that we may fail to recognize the truth - that a loving friend has just done us an enormous favor.

　　偶尔我们总会需要帮助，所以我们请别人帮点小忙。不过对那些急切想拯救我们的人最好要带着一颗机警的心。因为哪怕是最小的恩惠都是有价格的。是的，每个人心里都有一本帐，不管他们告诉我们什么。别有用心的人太多了，像好朋友帮了大忙这样的情况真是少之又少。我们过分的警觉导致我们失去了对真相的判断力。

　　

　　

This is how Bree Van De Kamp finally came to change her weekly routine, she still cleaned on Tuesdays, paid her bills on Wednesdays, and did her laundries on Thursdays, but her Fridays were now reserved for a meeting, a special meeting where she stood in front of people she didn’t know, and said things she didn’t believe, and afterwards Bree would come home and reward herself on the completion of another successful week.

　　这就是Bree Van De Kamp如何最终改变了自己的每周安排，她仍然在周二打扫卫生；在周三付帐单；在周四洗衣服，但每个周五她要参加一个特别会议，在会议上她站在一群陌生人面前说她自己都不相信的话，然后回到家中犒劳自己，祝贺完满成功的一周。

　　

　　

    At that precise moment as Dr Hanson Mills was cutting yet another umbilical cord, other ties were being severed all over town, like the one between a child and a mother who didn't want him to grow up so quickly, or the one between a case of fine wine and a housewife who hadn't wanted to admit she had a problem, or the one between a women and the boyfriend who couldn't forgive her betrayal. The choice to separate from what we love is painful; the only thing worse is when someone we've trusted makes the choice for us.

　　就在Hanson Mills医生切断另一根脐带的时候，小镇上其他的联系也被切断了。像一个母亲和儿子之间，母亲不想孩子那么快就长大；一箱好酒和主妇之间的关系，主妇不想承认她酗酒；或是一个女人和男友之间的关系，男友不能原谅她的背叛。选择离开我们的爱是痛苦的，更糟糕的是我们信任的人让我们做这样的选择。

　　

　　

Temptation comes to all of us, whether or not we succumb depends on our ability to recognize its disguise, sometimes it arrives in a form of an old flame, flickering back to life, or a new friend who could end up being so much more, or a young child who wakens feelings we didn't know we had. And so we give in to temptation all the while knowing come morning, we'll have to suffer the consequences.

　　每个人都会受到诱惑，我们是否屈服与诱惑决定于我们识破其伪装的能力。有时它们以闪回的火花形式出现；有时是一个意义深远的新朋友；有时是一个触发我们不曾有过的感觉的婴 儿。不过如果我们屈服于诱惑，那么第二天我们必须承担后果。

　　

　　

We've all done something in our lives us we are ashamed of, some of us have fallen for the wrong man, some have let go of the right women, there're those who have humiliated their parents and those who have failed their children. Yes, we've all made mistakes that diminish us and those we love. But there is redemption if we try to learn from those mistakes and grow.

　　我们都做过一些自己都感到惭愧的事。有些人爱错了人，有些人错过了爱；有些孩子使父母 丢脸，也有些家长让孩子失望。是的，我们都犯过错使我们爱的人离我们而去。但如果我们 试着从这些错误中吸取教训并成长，就还有挽回的机会。

　　

　　

There's is a prayer intended to give strength to people faced with circumstances they don't want to accept. The power of the prayer comes from its insight into human nature. Because so many of us rage against the hand that life has dealt us; Because so many of us are cowardly, and afraid to stand up for what is right; Because so many of us give in to despair, when faced with an impossible choice. The good news for those who utter these words is that god will hear you and answer your prayer. The bad news is that sometimes the answer is no.

　　祈祷赐给我们力量，让我们能够面对不愿接受的事实。祈祷的力量来自它对人性的洞察力；因为太多的人对我们的生活充满愤怒；因为太多的人过于懦弱，不敢拍案而起；因为太多的 人无法选择的时候，选择对绝望妥协。好消息是敢于把话说出口的人，上帝会听到你的祈祷 并回答你。坏消息是有的时候上帝的答案是否定的。

　　

　　

When the truth is ugly, people try to keep it hidden, because they know if revealed, the damage it will do. So they conceal it within sturdy walls, or they place it behind closed doors, or they obscure it with clever disguises, but truth , no matter how ugly, always emerges, and someone we care about always ends up getting hurt, and someone else will revel in their pain, and that's the ugliest truth of all.

当真相很丑陋的时候，人们想法设法来掩盖它。因为他们知道如果被发现的话后果相当严重。所以他们用严实的墙来遮蔽它；或把真相关在紧闭的门后；或用聪明的伪装使它们变得朦胧。但不管真相多么丑陋它们总会浮现，那些我们关心的人最后还是会受到伤害，而另外一些人却为他们的痛苦而快乐，这才是最丑陋的事实。

　　

　　

　　It's a shocking moment for each of us that moment we realize we are all alone in this world. The family we take for granted could one day abandon us; the husband we trust so implicitly might betray us; the daughter we love so deeply perhaps won't return to us. And then we could end up all by ourselves.

　　对每个人来说意识到自己孤独的活在世上都是震惊无比的。我们认为理所当然的家庭会抛弃我们；我们深信无比的丈夫也可能背叛我们；我们深深爱着的女儿也许不再回到我们的身边。那时我们只能一个人孤独的走到生命的尽头。

　　

　

This is the street where I used to live, and these were the people with whom I shared my life. I met them the day they moved in, and I saw what they brought with them - beautiful dreams for the future and quiet hopes for a better life not just for themselves, but for their children, too. If I could, would I tell them what lies ahead? Would I warn them of the sorrow and betrayal that lie in store? No, from where I stand now, I see enough of the road to understand how it must be traveled. The trick is to keep moving forward to let go of the fear and the regret that slow us down and keep us from enjoying a journey that will be over too soon. Yes, there will be unexpected bends in the road, shocking surprises we didn't see coming, but that's really the point, don't you think?

这就是我曾经生活的街道，我和这些人一起分享过生活。我在他们搬来那天起认识的他们，我看到他们带来的――对美好未来的憧憬；为更好生活的向往，为自己更为了孩子。如果我可以，我会告诉他们前路是什么样的吗？我会警告他们未来的悲伤和背叛吗？不会，站在我的位子我自然明白路应该怎样走。秘诀就是放下拖慢我们脚步的艰难困苦，勇往直前的享受这快乐而又短暂的人生旅途。

　　

　　

　　Every storm brings with it hope that somehow by morning, everything will be made clean again. And even the most troubling stains will have disappeared. Like the doubts over his innocence, or the consequence of his mistake, like the scars of his betrayal, or the memory of his kiss. So we wait for the storm to pass hoping for the best, even though we know in our hearts some stains are so indelible, nothing can wash them away.

　　每随风暴而来的是希望——不论如何，到了早晨，一切都会变干净，即使最顽固的污点也会消失。像对清白的疑惑，错误的结果，背叛的创伤，亲吻的记忆。我们等待着风暴退却，期待着雨过天睛。即使我们清楚在心中, 有些污点是如此顽固，没有什么能将它们清除。

　　

 

Have you met the perfect couple? The two soul mates whose love never dies? The two lovers whose relationship is never threatened. The husband and wife who trust each other completely. If you haven't met the perfect couple, let me introduce you. They stand atop a layer of butter cream frosting. The secret of their success? Well, for starters, they don't have to look at each other.

　　你有没有遇到过完美的一对，精神伴侣，他们的爱永远不死；这对恋人，他们的爱情从没受到过威胁；丈夫和妻子，完完全全信任对方？如果你没有遇见过这样的一对眷侣，让我来给你介绍这么一对：他们是站在奶油冰淇淋上的。他们成功的秘诀？——他们从来不正视对方

　　

　　

We all carry something with us. Of course, it's nice if we travel with some one who can help lighten the load. But usually, it's easier to just drop what we've been carrying so we can get home that much sooner. Assuming, of course, there will be someone there to greet us when we arrive. Why do we clutch at this baggage, even when we're desperate to move on? Because we all know there's a chance we might let go too soon.

　　我们都在负重前行。当然，能结伴而行会很幸福, 有人帮助分担重负。但通常抛掉负担会更简单。这样我们就能早日归家。设想着，当然,有人会在家迎接我们归来。为什么有人仍然抓住行李不放，即使我们不顾一切的向前看。因为我们都知道，有的机会也许我们放弃的太快。

　　

　

We all have our reasons for rewriting history. Sometimes we need to provide ourselves alibis. Sometimes we wanna hurt someone who has hurt us, and then there are times we just wanna spare ourselves embarrassment. Of course, there are some who feel that to rewrite history is just another way to lie. But what is history anyway....But a set of lies agree depend?

　　我们都有要改写历史的原因。有时候我们需要给自己找一些托辞。有时我们想要伤害那些曾经伤害过我们的人, 有时我们只是不想自己困窘难堪。当然，有时改写历史只是另一种方式去说谎。但是，历史究竟是什么呢。。。。难道只是一系列的谎言吗？

　　

　　

Sabotage, everyone is capable of it. But some go about it more cruelness than the others.Like the ones who create vengeance… Or the ones who hunger for love. Or the ones who were determined to burn bridges.　And then there are those who simply wants something…Something that belongs to someone else.

　　阴谋破坏，每个人都能做，但有些人可以做得更加冷酷。像那些渴望复仇的人。。。像那些寻觅爱情的人。。。像那些决定一刀两断的人。。。也有些人的愿望简单而直接。。。有时候, 那属于其他人。

　　

　　

There is a place in St. Timothy church where sinners go to confess their sins. And once they are done, they expect absolution.But the truth is, not all confessions are worthy of such forgiveness.Most who unveil his agendas deserve the condemnation they receive.Most who disclose revengeful motives marry the punishment that follows. Only the truly repentant at any right at all expect a second chance. Were just why it's best to think twice before you confess.Especially if you don’t know what it is you're confessing to.   

　　St.Timothy 教堂有处罪人忏悔的地方,当他们忏悔完，都期待能得到宽恕,但事实上，不是所有忏悔都值得被原谅。大多数人，秘密计划败露了,得到应有的谴责。大多数人, 报复动机暴露了,得到随之而来的惩罚,只有真心悔过，才有权利获得第二次机会。这就是为什么最好在你忏悔前先三思而后行…尤其是如果你不知道你在忏悔什么.

　　

　　

　　Sweetie, we can't prevent what can't predict.Isn't there anything I could do? Yes, yes. You can enjoy this beautiful day.We get so few of them. 

　　亲爱的，我们不能预防我们所不能预知的,有什么是我能做的么？你可以享受这美丽的一天.我们很少有这样的一天.

　　

　　

There are so many things we wish we could tell the young.We'd like to persuade them not to grow up so fast.But they won't listen.We want to tell them the beauty face but they refuse to believe it.We worn them that their actions will have consequences, but still they defy us.Suddenly the young can began to understand the world is a dangerous place. So it’s up to us to do anything we can to protect them, Absolutely anything. 

　　有太多的事情我们想要告诉孩子们,我们想说服他们，不要这么快就长大。但他们听不进去。我们想告诉他们，花容总有凋谢的一天，但他们拒绝相信。我们警告他们，他们的所作所为会有后果，但他们仍然不予理睬。终有一天，孩子们会意识到这个世界是危险的,所以我们要做的就是，尽一切可能来保护他们,不惜一切代价。

　　

　　

Dangerous men walk among us.And we can’t always be sure who they are or what secret they hide.But once our suspicious are confirmed,We can take action.Once their agenda were revealed,We can take steps to protect ourselves and those we love. Yes, dangerous men can cause great harm, But sometimes the greatest dangerous they pose is to themselves.

危险的人在我们之中潜伏。我们不是总能肯定他们是谁，或者他们隐藏着怎样的秘密.但是最可怕的疑虑得到证实。我们就可以采取行动。一旦他们的行事议程被揭露。我们就能采取措施保护自己和我们爱的人。是的，危险的人会造成巨大的伤害。但是人有时候他们所做有最危险的事, 是对他们自己做的。

　　

　　

There's a reason people can't wait for Christmas, and it has little to do with family reunions. Or curling up with a cup of eggnog.with that unexpected kiss beneath the mistletoe，or receiving a present from a special someone. No, people look forward to Christmas.Because they know, it's a time for miracles.

　　人们等不及过圣诞节的理由和家人团聚没有任何关系。或是为了蜷缩着喝一杯蛋酒。又或是槲寄生下那个意料的吻。或是收到某个特殊的人送来的礼物。不是的，人们期待圣诞节的到来。因为他们知道，是时候...出现奇迹了...

　　

　

It's a dangerous world. So we all look for protection. And whether we find it in the arms of our mother, or at the end of a jagged blade, or in the kiss of our sweetheart, or at the end of a barrel. We do what we have to feel safe.

　　Because we know somewhere in the world there are those who would do us harm.

　　这个世界危机四伏，所以我们都会寻求保护。不管是妈妈那温暖的臂弯，还是一把锯齿刀片，不管是心爱妻子的一个轻吻，还是一把手枪。为了安全感，我们不得不有所行动。因为我们知道世界上的某个地方，有想伤害我们的人。

　　

　　

Yes, it can happen so quickly. Life as we know it can change in the blink of an eye. 　　Unlikely friendships can blossom. Important careers can be tossed aside. A long -lost hope can be rekindled. Still, we should be grateful for whatever changes life throws at us, because all too soon the day will come when there are no changes left.

　　是的，世事瞬息万变。转眼之间，面目全非。不可能的友谊可以开花结果，重要的事业可以放置一边，灰飞烟灭的希望可以重新点燃。不论如何，我们仍然要感激生活的改变，因为不久末日来临，就不在有任何改变了。

　　

　　

Recapturing the past is a tricky business. While most memories are simply souvenirs of a happier time, others can be quite deadly.

　　回顾过去不是件容易事，其中大部分是关于快乐时光的记忆，也有的可能是致命的。

　　

　

In every housewife's closet, there's an article of clothing that tells you more about its owner than she would want you to know. It might be a T-shirt that she despises but wears without complaint. Perhaps it's some lingerie, she knows isn't hers, but refuses to discuss... Or a dress she once loved, that she can no longer bear to look at this. You can learn a lot about women from what they choose to wear. You can learn even more by what they choose to take off, and who they take it off for.

　　每个主妇的衣橱里，满满的都是关于着装的文章，记载着主人很多不为人知的细节。也许是一件T恤，她很不喜欢，却毫无怨言的穿上；也许是一件内衣，她明知不是自己的，却拒绝提起；也许是一件她曾经非常喜欢的长裙，可如今却再也不想看见。是的，女人决定穿什么，会让你知晓很多，但是如果知道她愿意褪去什么，为谁褪去，你会更加了解她的。

　　

　　

　　It's so easy to spot the lonely ones. They’re the people who tell stories to their plants, and whisper secrets to their pets, and have arguments with their TV, and the loneliest of all are the ones who talk to people who are no longer there.

　　孤单的身影总是随处可见。他们向自己的盆栽倾诉心事，向自己的宠物分享秘密，和自己的电视机争吵不休，但最孤单的则是这样一类人，他们向亡者倾诉。

　　

Passion. It's a force so potent we still remember it long after it's faded away. A drive so alluring it can push us to the arms of unexpected lovers. A sensation so overwhelming it can knock down walls we built to protect our hearts. A feeling so intense it resurfaces even though we try so hard to keep it buried. Yes, of all emotions, passion is the one that gives us a reason to live and an excuse to commit all sorts of crimes.

　　激情，就算它在逝去很久以后，仍是让人如此难以忘记。它是如此强烈的诱惑，把我们推到意想不到的爱人怀中；它是无法抗拒的感情，击垮了我们修筑起来的保护心灵的高墙；它是那尽管我们如此努力的埋藏，却仍浮出水面的炙热情感。是的，在所有的情绪中，激情给了我们生活下去的理由，却也给我们了犯下各种罪刑的借口。

　

 

　　Power, it's the type of thing most people don't think about, until it's taken away. Whether it's the political power of the many, or a lover's influence over just one. We all want some sort of power in our lives, if only to give ourselves choices. Yes, to be without choices, to feel utterly powerless, well...it's a lot...like being alone...in the dark.

　　能量，多数人平日里毫不在意，直到有一天猝然消逝才会察觉。不论是大众的政治权力，还 是恋人间亲亲我我的影响。人生中我们都需要某种能量，哪怕只是给我们一些选择。是的， 假如连选择都没有，假如连一丝能量都没有，那么在黑暗中，蔓延开来的，就是无边无际的 孤独。

　　

      

Gossip--it's just a harmless form of recreation. It's careless talk that deals in polite fiction. It's nasty speculation that's based on not-so-polite fact. How do we protect ourselves from the numerous string of such idle gossip? The best way is to just tell the truth.

　　

 

Anyone can end up a victim...injured by the actions of others .But whether the damage is infected by a cunning ex-wife...or a blow delivered by the object of our affection ...the time comes when we must pick ourselves up and continue on our journey .And if we can't ,then all we can pray for ...is rescue .

　　人人都会末路逢凶，被他人所伤。但无论是被狡猾的前妻算计，还是被我们心仪的对象打击，我们都要站起来，收拾行囊，我们都要站起来，继续旅程。如果我们做不到，那就只有祈求，被救赎。

　　

 

From the moment we wake up in the morning till our head hits the pillow at night our lives are filled with questions. Most are easily answered and soon forgotten, but some questions are much harder to ask because we're so afraid of the answer .Will I be around to watch my children grow up ?Am I making mistake by marrying this man? Could he ever truly love me? And what happens when we ask ourselves the hard question and get the answer we'd been hoping for ?Well, that’s when happiness begins.

　　从我们清晨醒来，到我们夜晚入睡，我们的生活充满了疑问。一些容易回答，也容易被忘记；有些问题却难以提出，因为我们害怕知道答案--我能否或者看到孩子们长大？我是否嫁对了人？他是否会真心爱我？以及，当我们终于开口问了问题，也得到了我们希望得到的答案，又会发生什么事情？幸福的生活将从此开始。

　　

 

    Family--there is nothing more important. They're the ones who show up when we're in trouble, the ones who push us to succeed, the ones who help keep our secrets .But what of those who have no family to rely on ?What happens to those poor souls...who have no loved ones to help them in their hour of need? Well....most learn to walk life's road by themselves, But a sad few of us...simply...stop trying .

　　家人，这世上最珍贵的风景，困难时他们突然出现；有意无意时他们助推成功；守密时他们相依为伴。若无这方风景依仗，又将何去何从？那些孤寂的灵魂去往何方？渴求时却没有爱人肩膀，于是只能学者自己走完人生路，但总有可悲的人啊，却连尝试，都要放弃